feat: Bicep child module publishing guidelines (#2233)
Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules: docs/content/contributing/bicep/bicep-contribution-flow/child-module-publishing.md

    enableTelemetry: enableReferencedModulesTelemetry
    ```
- Add the `version.json` file to the child module folder and set version to `0.1`.
  ```json
  {
    "$schema": "https://aka.ms/bicep-registry-module-version-file-schema#",
    "version": "0.1"
  }
  ```
- Update Changelogs
  - Add a new `CHANGELOG.md` file to the child module folder, with the following sample content. Make sure to replace the `<avm/res/path/to/child-module>` placeholder with the name of the child module.
    ```markdown
    # Changelog

    The latest version of the changelog can be found [here](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/<avm/res/path/to/child-module>/CHANGELOG.md).

    ## 0.1.0

    ### Changes

    - Initial version

    ### Breaking Changes

    - None
    ```
  - Update the changelog of all the child module's versioned parents with a new patch version, up to the top-level parent. Refer below for an example content section:
    ```markdown
      ## <CurrentMajor>.<CurrentMinor>.<CurrentPatch+1>

      ### Changes

      - Enabling child module `<avm/res/path/to/child-module>` for publishing (added telemetry option)

      ### Breaking Changes

      - None

    ```

> - As per the defaultc pull request process, run the [Set-AVMModule](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/utilities/tools/Set-AVMModule.ps1) utility using the `-Recurse` flag and top-level parent's folder path. Then test your changes locally and/or via the top-level module pipeline, raise a PR and attach a status badge proving successful validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As per the default pull request process, run the [Set-AVMModule](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/utilities/tools/Set-AVMModule.ps1) utility using the `-Recurse` flag and top-level parent's folder path. Then test your changes locally and/or via the top-level module pipeline, raise a PR and attach a status badge proving successful validation.
```
We were so close 🤏

---
title: Child Module Publishing

> description: How to set up a child module for publishing so that it can be directly referenced from the Bicep public registry

Reviewer: It's
```suggestion
description: How to set up a child module for publishing so that it can be directly referenced from the Public Bicep Registry
```
right?

---

Child resources are resources that exist only within the scope of another resource. For example, a virtual network subnet cannot exist without a virtual network. The subnet is a child resource of the virtual network.

In the context of AVM, particularly AVM Bicep resource modules, child modules are modules deploying child resources. They are implemented within the scope of their corresponding parent resource modules. For example, the module `avm/res/network/virtual-network/subnet` deploys a virtual network subnet and is a child module of its parent virtual network module `avm/res/network/virtual-network`.

> By default, child modules are not published to the public bicep registry independently from their top-level parents. They need to be explicitly enabled for publishing to be directly referenced from the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, child modules are not published to the public bicep registry independently from their parents. They need to be explicitly enabled for publishing to be directly referenced from the registry.
```

This page covers step-by-step guidelines to publish a bicep child module.

{{% notice style="important" %}}

> The child module publishing process is currently in a pilot/preview phase. This means it may not be as smooth as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The child module publishing process is currently in a pilot/preview phase. This means it may not be as smooth as the general module publishing.
```

The core team is currently working on additional automation, with the goal of improving efficiency in addressing child module publishing requests.

{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice style="note" %}}

Child module publishing currently only applies to resource modules.

Supporting child module publishing for other module categories, such as pattern and utility modules, is not planned at this time.

{{% /notice %}}

## Quick guide

> *TLDR*

Author: check if added context helps

> *TLDR*

Reviewer: I still don't get the acronmy and why it is here. Is that some Go logic that will result in some visual of sorts?

> *TLDR*

Reviewer: So it's a joke? 
If that's a common practice, please feel free to resolve. I guess it's just me, but I don't understand why one would want to add this anywhere 😄 I'd think 'Quick guide' gives it away. Does that make me old? 👴

> *TLDR*

Author: Well the expression is from early 2000, maybe that makes you too young :)

* **Check prerequisites**: Existing [issue in AVM](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22Class%3A%20Child%20Module%20%3Apackage%3A%22%20label%3A%22Language%3A%20Bicep%20%3Amuscle%3A%22), telemetry ID prefix assigned in [CSV {{% icon icon="download" %}}]({{% siteparam base %}}/module-indexes/BicepResourceModules.csv), module registered in the [MAR-file](https://github.com/microsoft/mcr/blob/main/teams/bicep/bicep.yml).
* Implement required changes in your fork:
  * **Allowed list**: If not present, add child module to [child-module-publish-allowed-list.json](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/utilities/pipelines/staticValidation/compliance/helper/child-module-publish-allowed-list.json).
  * **Child module template**: Add `enableTelemetry` parameter and `avmTelemetry` deployment to child main.bicep template.

>   * **Parent module template**: In the main.bicep template of the child module direct parent, add `enableReferencedModulesTelemetry` variable and pass it as `enableTelemetry` value down to the child module deployment.

Author: here I wanted to briefly mention the required change, I'd like to keep that brief. Details and examples are provided in the detailed step-by-step. I added backticks to the file name for consistency, but I'd prefer skipping the code example

>   * **Version**: Add the version.json to the child module folder, set version to `0.1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Version**: Add the `version.json` with a value of `0.1` to the child module folder.
```

Author: done with slightly different wording

>   * **Changelog**: Add a new CHANGELOG.md to the child module folder and update the changelog of all its versioned parents with a new patch version, up to the top-level parent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Changelog**: Add a new `CHANGELOG.md` file to the child module folder and update the changelog of all its versioned parents with a new patch version, up to the top-level parent.
```

>   * **Set-AVMModule**: Run [Set-AVMModule](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/utilities/tools/Set-AVMModule.ps1), test your changes, raise a PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Set-AVMModule**: Run the [Set-AVMModule](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/utilities/tools/Set-AVMModule.ps1) utility, test your changes and raise a PR.
```

Ensure there is an [AVM issue open](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22Class%3A%20Child%20Module%20%3Apackage%3A%22%20label%3A%22Language%3A%20Bicep%20%3Amuscle%3A%22) already, proposing the child module to be published. If not, please create one using the [Bicep Child Module Proposal issue template](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/issues/new?template=4_module_proposal_bicep_child.yml).

{{% notice style="note" %}}

Please understand the difference between publishing an existing child module and extending a parent module with a not yet implemented child module functionality.

The Bicep Child Module Proposal issue intends to cover the former, so the intended child module MUST already exist in the [BRM (Bicep Registry Modules)](https://aka.ms/BRM) repository source code.

{{% /notice %}}

### Telemetry ID prefix assigned

Follow the below steps to check the child module telemetry ID prefix.

{{% notice style="note" %}}

If the Bicep Child Module Proposal issue was just created, please allow a few days for the telemetry ID prefix to be assigned before reaching out.

{{% /notice %}}

> 1. Download the Bicep resource module index source CSV file from [here]({{% siteparam base %}}/module-indexes/BicepResourceModules.csv).

Reviewer: Why download? Would it not be benefitial/easier to use the web view instead? Ref: https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/blob/main/docs/static/module-indexes/BicepResourceModules.csv

Author: good point, updated

### Module registered in the MAR-file

Ensure that the child module is registered in the [MAR-file](https://github.com/microsoft/mcr/blob/main/teams/bicep/bicep.yml).
If not, please reach out to the core team, mentioning the `@Azure/avm-core-team-technical-bicep` via the Bicep Child Module Proposal issue.

{{% notice style="note" %}}

The MAR-file can only be accessed by Microsoft FTEs. If you are missing access, please reach out to the parent module owner for help.

{{% /notice %}}

## Implementation

The quickest way to get the child module published is to enable it yourself, contributing via a pull request to the [BRM](https://aka.ms/BRM) repository.

Please follow the steps below:

- Make sure the child module name is listed in the publishing allowed list [child-module-publish-allowed-list.json](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/utilities/pipelines/staticValidation/compliance/helper/child-module-publish-allowed-list.json). If not, add it to the file, keeping an alphabetical order. This step is relevant until the process is in a pilot phase.

> - Update child module main.bicep template to support telemetry, as per [SFR4]({{% siteparam base %}}/spec/SFR4), [SFR3]({{% siteparam base %}}/spec/SFR3) and [BCPFR4]({{% siteparam base %}}/spec/BCPFR4)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update child module `main.bicep` template to support telemetry, as per [SFR4]({{% siteparam base %}}/spec/SFR4), [SFR3]({{% siteparam base %}}/spec/SFR3) and [BCPFR4]({{% siteparam base %}}/spec/BCPFR4)
```

Author: done

  - Add the `enableTelemetry` parameter with a default value of `true`.
    ```bicep
    @description('Optional. Enable/Disable usage telemetry for module.')
    param enableTelemetry bool = true
    ```
  - Add the `avmTelemetry` deployment, referencing below template. Make sure to replace the `<ReplaceWith-TelemetryIdPrefix>` placeholder with the assigned telemetry ID prefix value that you noted down when checking prerequisites.
    ```bicep
      #disable-next-line no-deployments-resources

>       resource avmTelemetry 'Microsoft.Resources/deployments@2024-03-01' = if (enableTelemetry) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      resource avmTelemetry 'Microsoft.Resources/deployments@2025-04-01' = if (enableTelemetry) {
```

Author: check

        name: '<ReplaceWith-TelemetryIdPrefix>.${replace('-..--..-', '.', '-')}.${substring(uniqueString(deployment().name), 0, 4)}'
        properties: {
          mode: 'Incremental'
          template: {
            '$schema': 'https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json#'
            contentVersion: '1.0.0.0'
            resources: []
            outputs: {
              telemetry: {
                type: 'String'
                value: 'For more information, see https://aka.ms/avm/TelemetryInfo'
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```

> - Update the main.bicep template of the child module direct parent, as per [BCPFR7]({{% siteparam base %}}/spec/BCPFR7).

Author: check

  - Add the `enableReferencedModulesTelemetry` variable with a default value of `false`.
    ```bicep
    var enableReferencedModulesTelemetry = false
    ```
  - Pass the `enableReferencedModulesTelemetry` variable as the `enableTelemetry` value down to the child module deployment.
    ```bicep
    enableTelemetry: enableReferencedModulesTelemetry
    ```

> - Add the version.json file to the child module folder and set version to `0.1`.

Author: check

  ```json
  {
    "$schema": "https://aka.ms/bicep-registry-module-version-file-schema#",
    "version": "0.1"
  }
  ```
- Update Changelogs

>   - Add a new CHANGELOG.md to the child module folder, with the following sample content. Make sure to replace the `<avm/res/path/to/child-module>` placeholder with the name of the child module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add a new `CHANGELOG.md` to the child module folder, with the following sample content. Make sure to replace the `<avm/res/path/to/child-module>` placeholder with the name of the child module.
```

    ```markdown
    # Changelog

    The latest version of the changelog can be found [here](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/<avm/res/path/to/child-module>/CHANGELOG.md).

    ## 0.1.0

    ### Changes

    - Initial version

    ### Breaking Changes

    - None
    ```
  - Update the changelog of all the child module versioned parents with a new patch version, up to the top-level parent. Refer below for an example content section:
    ```markdown
      ## <CurrentMajor>.<CurrentMinor>.<CurrentPatch+1>

      ### Changes

      - Enabling child module `<avm/res/path/to/child-module>` for publishing (added telemetry option)

      ### Breaking Changes

      - None

    ```

> - As per usual pull request process, run the [Set-AVMModule](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/utilities/tools/Set-AVMModule.ps1) script, test your changes locally and/or via the top-level module pipeline, raise a PR and attach a status badge proving successful validation.

Author: check

> - As per usual pull request process, run the [Set-AVMModule](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/blob/main/utilities/tools/Set-AVMModule.ps1) script, test your changes locally and/or via the top-level module pipeline, raise a PR and attach a status badge proving successful validation.

Author: recheck
